# Analyzing Ralph Ellison's *[Invisible Man](https://voyant-tools.org/?corpus=afddac0dbbc398cd24c57894c97d3ee6&stopList=keywords-e43a83cbe8df0f2d0926d6356d0d726e&panels=corpusterms,termsberry,trends,summary,contexts)* with Voyant Tools

Published in 1952, *Invisible Man* was Ralph Ellison's debut novel. Ellison sought to interrogate the Black American identity and its intersection with different political ideologies and movements. The novel is fluid and dynamic, as the unamed narrator explores his racial identity and attempts to reconcile this component of himself with his place in society. I uploaded a pdf file of the entire novel into Voyant Tools. I believe that Voyant's word-use timeline will help users analyze changes in the narrator's state of mind throughout the novel. Specifically, the Context and Document Terms function will highlighted as a part of this exercise. 

## [Document Trends](https://voyant-tools.org/?corpus=afddac0dbbc398cd24c57894c97d3ee6&stopList=keywords-e43a83cbe8df0f2d0926d6356d0d726e&query=like&query=man&query=brother&query=know&query=white&bins=25&mode=document&view=Trends)

Viewers should immediately note that the x-axis is broken down into twenty-five segments. Each segment is meant to represent a different chapter of the book (twenty-four chapters plus the prologue and epilouge), but the segment-number slider would only let me choose between twenty-five and twenty-seven. My choice of twenty-five is arbitrary but the rationale behind the ballpark is explained. The terms "like" and "man" peak in some of the first and last segments of the novel. These segments are when we hear from the narrator in his "invisble man" persona, where he has rejected and been rejected by society. Ellison uses the words "like" and "man" in these segments because the narrator frequently compares himself to other members of society, or his pre-hermetic self, while also questioning what his past and present identities mean to himself. The term "brother" begins rising in segment 12, peaks at segments 16 & 18, and begins declining after segment 21. In these segments, the narrator joins and associates with a radical political party where the members refer to each other as "brother" and "sister." Viewers can discern at which points the narrator feels the most and least attached to community structures by the usage of the highlighted terms. In turn, the viewer can also reasonably discern where the narrator experiences the greatest and least inner-conflict based on his alienation from said community structures. 

## [Contexts](https://voyant-tools.org/?corpus=afddac0dbbc398cd24c57894c97d3ee6&view=Contexts&stopList=keywords-91ef7e8d3b66f7fdbf704b7b05e518bc&query=like&termColors=)

I have linked the contexts for the term "like" for one reason: I removed the positive tone-indicator from the word. I used the contexts function to justify this decision. Viewers can see that the author uses the term "like" primarily in comparisons via similes. In turn, the word is not necessarily carrying a positive or negative tone in many of the contexts in which it is used. As previously mentioned, the narrator is highly referential, comparing himself to others and his pre-hermetic self many times (especially in the first and last segments). Removing the positive tone-indicator from "like" helps viewers develop a more accurate vision of the term's use. That is to say, there is no internal bias associated with the term highlighted in green so readers may see the word represented more closely to how Ellison uses it rather than making more spurious associations. 
